# StanleyThesisSupplementaryMaterials
All supplementary materials for my undergraduate thesis

Title: Species Conservation through Partnership: Exploring Conservation Partners in Species “Warranted but Precluded” from Listing 

Abstract: The recovery of threatened species often relies on the formation of partnerships between conservation organizations that contribute to the recovery process by providing resources, management, incentives and encouraging behavior or learning. Efficient recovery planning needs to be able to consider existing partnerships and know when to strategically develop new ones. In this context, the main challenge is a lack of information on which organizations are partnering on species recovery, how common partnership are and the degree to which they vary across different types of species and recovery initiatives. One situation where partners are explicitly acknowledged, and thus can be studied, is when species are precluded from listing under the Endangered Species Act (ESA) due to conservation. While partnerships across the Endangered Species Act listed species may differ, focusing on the precluded species list offers an opportunity to explore partnerships and is a first step towards being able to incorporate partnerships into conservation planning. Thus, the goal of this study is to explore the presence and activities of partnerships between organizations that are engaged in threatened species conservation actions. To do so, I created a “conservation partners” dataset from publicly available recovery documents and management plans and use these data to explore my study questions: who are the organizations partnering with the US Fish and Wildlife Service?, how many species is each partner involved with? and how many partnerships does each partner have? In addition, I use a regression analysis to predict the number of partners per species based on species characteristics. Findings indicate that the majority of partners work on one to two species and form partnerships within the range of zero to thirty other partners. Furthermore, the data shows a positive linear trend between the number of partners per partnership and the number of species. Finally, the number of threats that a species faces was  positively related to the number of partners in my regression analysis. Put together, these results work to characterize which entities work in species recovery and who they work with. Such information is important in species recovery and looks to further the field of systemic conservation planning
